Wingspan
Introduction: Players take the role of ornithologists seeking to attract the best birds to their nature reserves. Each Bird attracted to your
Reserve acts as part of a ecological chain that gathers food, produces eggs, and attracts more birds.

Game End and Goal: The game ends at the end of the fourth Round. The player with the most points is the winner!

Setup:

    1.  Put the grey Bird Tray in the middle of the table.
    2.  Shuffle all 170 Bird Cards (turquoise backs), and create a deck next to the Bird Tray. Reveal and place 3 cards into the 3 slots in
        the tray.
    3. Create a Supply next to the Bird Tray with all 103 Food Tokens and 75 multi-coloured Eggs.
    4. Put the Birdfeeder in the middle of the table, and roll the 5 (wooden) Food Dice into the Birdfeeder.
    5. Place the Goal Board in the middle of the table. This board can be placed Green side up for more competition between players,
        or Blue side up for less. The green side is the default. Players agree between themselves which side to use.
    6. Shuffle the 8 (double-sided) Goal Tiles without looking at them, and draw 4 of the tiles (random side up), placing one on each
        of the Goal Tile spaces on the Goal Board. Make sure everyone is clear on the Goals for each round.
    7. Shuffle the 26 Bonus Cards (green backs), and place them face down as a deck next to the Bird Tray.
    8. Each Player takes the following items:
             a. 1 Player Mat
             b. 8 (wooden) Action Cubes of their chosen player colour (R/Y/G/B/P)
             c. 2 Bonus Cards (drawn from the Bonus Card Deck)
             d. 5 Bird Cards (drawn from the Bird Card Deck, not the Bird Tray display)
             e. 5 Food Tokens, one of each type (Invertibrate (worm), Seed, Fish, Berry, Rodent)
    9. Each player decides how many Bird Cards from their hand to keep, discarding 1 Food Token for each Bird they keep. Their
        remaining Bird Cards are discarded. You may look at your Bonus Cards when picking your birds.
    10. Each player chooses one Bonus Card to keep from the 2 they were dealt, discarding the remaining card to the Bird Card discard.
    11. Randomly select a First Player and give them the First Player token (with the bird that matches the box lid).

Course of Play:

The game is played in 4 Rounds. During each round, players take turns until they have used all their available action cubes.

On a player’s turn, they must take one of the four possible actions (these are also listed on the left of the player board for easy reference).

    1.   Play a Bird from your hand
             a. Select a Bird Card from your hand.
             b. Pay the bird’s Food Cost by discarding Food Tokens from your personal supply
                         i. You may not discard cached food on other Bird Cards.
                        ii. A Wild Food requirement can be paid with any Food Token.
                       iii. If the Food requirement has a “+”, discard both types of Food token. If it has a “/” you choose which to discard.
                       iv. Some Birds have no Food requirements.
                        v. Two Food Tokens of the same type can be discarded to stand in for one Food Token of a required type
                            that you don’t have, if needed.
             c. Place the Bird Card chosen in the Habitat row matching the Bird’s desired habitat (Forest, Grassland, Wetland). The
                  Bird Card must be placed in the leftmost unoccupied space in that row (if there is more than one Habitat shown on the
                  Bird Card, the player may choose which habitat they place the bird in). A player may not exceed 5 Bird Cards per row.
                         i. Pay the Egg Cost of the column you are placing the Bird into (if any) with Eggs from your Player Mat.
                        ii. Place one of your Action Tokens on the top left corner of your Player Mat to indicate that you used an Action.
                       iii. If the Bird Card has a “when played” benefit, receive it now. Other Bird Card powers activate when triggered.
                       iv. You do not activate all the cards in the row like you do when performing Actions 2, 3, or 4.
    2.   Gain Food and Activate Forest Bird Powers
             a. Place an Action Token on the left-most uncovered space in the Forest Row. You will activate this space.
             b. Determine how many dies-worth of Food you are receiving from that space. Then, examine the dice in the Birdfeeder.
                  For each Food that you will be receiving, select a die in the Birdfeeder, take a Food Token of the matching type, and
                  then put the die to one side of the Birdfeeder, to show it has been used.
                         i. Where there is a “/” on the die, you may choose which food to take.
                        ii. There is no limit to the number of Food tokens a player can have in personal supply.
                       iii. Numbers and types of Food Tokens held by players are open information.
                       iv. Food tokens are unlimited. Use substitutes if they supply runs out.
                        v. If the Bonus Action “convert 1 Bird Card to Food” icon is visible on the activated space, a player may discard
                            one Bird Card from hand to take an additional die from the Birdfeeder. You may only do this once per
                            Action, and the Card discarded cannot come from your player mat, only your hand.
                       vi. If the Birdfeeder is empty, take all the used dice and re-roll them into the Birdfeeder.
                      vii. If you are about to gain Food for any reason, and there is only one choice of Food type in the Birdfeeder
                            (including a single die), you may re-roll all five dice into the Birdfeeder before selecting dice. Faces
                            with the “/” count as a unique face type (and only match identical versions of themselves).
                     viii. You can still activate the Gain Food Action even if you have no Bird Cards in the Forest Row.
                     ix. If the Forest Row is full (5 Bird Cards), the reward for the Action is listed to the right of the row.
              c. Once Food Tokens have been gained, walk the Action Token from right to left across the Bird Cards in the Forest row,
                 and each time a card with a “When Activated” power is reached, the player may activate its power. Finally place the
                 Action Cube to the left of the Forest Row to indicate the action is complete.
                       i. A “skull and crossbones” icon indicates that the bird is a predator.
                      ii. If a Bird Card Caches a particular type of Food, you place it on that card. These Food Tokens are worth a Point
                           each at the end of the game. Cached Food cannot be spent during the Play a Bird action.
                     iii. If an effect causes a player to “Tuck” a card, the card is placed under the Bird Card you activated, and the
                           tucked card is worth 1 Point at the end of the game.
    3.   Lay Eggs and Activate Grassland Bird Powers
             a. Place an Action Token on the leftmost uncovered space on the Grassland row.
             b. Determine how many Eggs you are receiving (and any bonus actions to take afterwards). The colour of Egg is irrelevant.
             c. Distribute the Eggs you receive between any Bird Cards on your Player Mat that are capable of holding them (see left
                 bar on Bird Card for Egg capacity), ensuring that you do not exceed the egg capacity of the card.
             d. Any excess Eggs you cannot store on Bird Cards are lost back to the general supply.
                       i. The Grassland Bonus Action allows you to exchange any Food Token for one additional Egg.
                      ii. The Egg supply is unlimited. Use substitutes if you run out.
             e. Once Eggs have been gained, walk the Action token from right to left across the Bird Cards in the Grassland Row, and
                 each time a card with a “When Activated” power is reached, the player may activate its power. Finally place the Action
                 cube to the left of the Grassland Row to indicate the action is complete.
    4.   Draw Bird Cards and Activate Wetland Bird Powers:
             a. Place an Action Token on the leftmost uncovered space on the Wetland row.
             b. Determine how many Bird Cards you are drawing from the icons on that space.
             c. Draw that number of Bird Cards from either the face-up Bird Card display, or blind from the Bird Deck.
                       i. The cards in the Bird Card display do not get refilled until your whole Action (including “When Activated”
                           powers) are completed.
             d. If the space also has the “Egg to Card” icon, you may discard an Egg from your Player Mat to draw a Bird Card.
             e. Once Cards have been gained, walk the Action token from right to left across the Bird Cards in the Wetland Row, and
                 each time a card with a “When Activated” power is reached, the player may activate its power.

Play then passes to the next player in clockwise order. When all players have placed all their action cubes, the round ends.

        Some Bird Cards have a “Once Between Turns” power, which is triggered by something another player does. Use the power as
         instructed on the card, but you cannot re-use that power until it has been your turn again. The “between” term would be better
         expressed as “once per Action rotation, when its not your turn… do X”. It does not matter if it hasn’t been your turn yet this round,
         or if its after your last turn this round – the power will activate provided it hasn’t already been used this rotation.

At the End of the Round, follow these steps in order:

    1.   Remove all Action Cubes from your player mat, and put them beside it, ready to use in the next round.
    2.   Score the end-of-round Goal for the round you just completed. Use one of your Action Cubes to mark your score on the Goal.
             a. Green Scoring: Count the quantity you have of the targeted item on the Goal Board for the current round. Arrange the
                   players’ cubes according to how players rank for the targeted item. Players score the indicated points at game end. If
                   players tie, place both cubes in the tied place, and do not award the next place. At game end, sum the points from the
                   tied space and the empty space behind it, and divide by the number of tied players, rounded down, awarding the points to
                   both players.
                          i. Any player that does not have any of the targeted item scores 0 points.
                         ii. Any player in 4th or 5th points scores 0 points.
             b. Blue Scoring: Count the quantity of the targeted item each player has, and place their Action Cube on that space. Players
                   score 1 point per targeted item at game end, max. 5 points. If they have none of the targeted item, they score 0.
             c. As a result of using an Action Token to score, you will have 1 fewer action cube for the next round, i.e. 8/7/6/5 Action cubes
                   for rounds 1/2/3/4, respectively.
    3.   Discard all Bird Cards in the Bird Tray and restock with Bird Cards from the deck
    4.   Pass the First Player token clockwise to the next player.

Game End and Scoring:

The game ends after Round 4. Use the Scorepad to sum the points for each player as follows:

    1.   Birds: The Points (marked with a feather) on the left of each Bird Card on your Player Mat (Bird Cards in hand score 0).
    2.   Bonus Cards: Points for each Bonus Card in hand, according to each Bonus Card’s scoring criterion.
    3.   End of Round Goals: Score points for your position in each of the End of Round Goals.
             a. Green Scoring: Score the points associated with the space your Action Cube is on for each Round. If players are tied,
                  sum the points from the tied space and the empty space behind it, and divide by the number of tied players, rounded down,
                  awarding the points to both players.
             b. Blue Scoring: Score the points associated with the space your Action Cube is on for each Round (max 5 per round).
    4.   Eggs on Birds/Food on Birds/Tucked Cards: Score 1 point for each Egg on a Bird Card, Food Token Cached on a Bird Card,
         and Bird Card tucked under another Bird Card.

The player with the most points wins! In case of a tie, the tied player with the most Food Tokens left wins.
